# Covid-safe-App
Database framework for Covid safe app
Created by Conner Mostert

The Australian government spent 1.5 Million dollars on developing the Covid tracing app and to date has spent over 5 
Million dollars maintaining it. I can do it for cheaper on a Government subsidized laptop and all the knowledge of HIT137
+ google. This program stores user’s data in a Hash table database. New clients can be added to the database and the 
information can be searched by designated users. All the client’s data is secured by Encryption algorithms, Hash algorithms,
Bot prevention protocols, Code injection prevention systems and User password restricted access. If a client is 
infected a User can see what codes are stored on the client’s app along with date and time. This will make contact 
tracing easier and faster.

Setup: 
-Pybluez needs to be downloaded since it’s not a standard library from python (pip pybluez) and Bluetooth needs to be enabled 
on your machine (Nothing dangerous the app just needs to search for a Bluetooth device).
-Student list.txt needs to be in the same folder as the program because the program will extract the data from the file
-Internet should be connected on your machine (again nothing dangerous the program has a link to a government website).
-Allow create new files needs to be enabled on your machine. The program writes a text file and saves it in this folder

Initiation:
Once the program is run it wall take all the information from the Student list.txt file and place them in a hash table 
by using the information and applying a hash algorithm calculation to it. The result of the calculation determines the
location in the hash table.
Every entry in the database has a name, last name, title, student number and a 10-digit hex code that is generated by the system.
The first 2 numbers of the code is the hash location + encryption. The third number is a random number between 0 and 15. This
is to assist with security and make the code harder to decrypt outside of the program. Digit 4 to 9 is the student number +
encryption and the last digit is a check digit. The check digit checks if all the other numbers are correct and not a random
code. After the list is added in the database a single element of the hash table is shown to show how it looks. All the 
students in the same hash table element are sorted by student number smallest to largest. This makes finding information
faster and more efficient.
A control panel will appear. Every option on the control panel is a different function of the database and wouldn't normally
be run together. Client represents a person signing up to the database. User represents a person using the code to find a
client that might be infected. App represents the app on the client’s phone that is broadcasting the code. If the client
comes into contact with another client the code from the other client is saved with the date and time. Quit just quits
the program without errors. 

Client: This window asks the client to enter their information to be added to the database. Every entry has a code
injection prevention system in place. Once the information has been added the client will tick the box "I’m not a robot".
This will trigger the bot check protocol and a new window will open with a red dot in the middle and instructions will 
appear on the client window(Red and light blue are used to assist people who are color blind. The client must click on the
 red dot then the red dot will move. 
Once the red dot stops the client must click on it again. The dot will move in a random direction. The clients click 
location is taken and compared with the turtle.position(). If the click location is closer than 2 for xcord and 2 for ycord to the 
turtle.position() the security check fails. With an area of 6000 by 2000 to get both the coordinates in such a close figure
is highly unlikely. If a bot was asked the click on the dot it will most likely return the turtle.position() as the click
coordinate and the security check will cease. If the user clicks too far away from the dot the dot will reset and the user
has to try again. The terminal will show the distance between turtle.position() and the click location. Once the bot check
is complete the window will close and a new window will show that the information has been added. In the code the clients
information is sent to a dummy method. This is to show that the information is verified by the CDU database and then
returned to the Covid Tracing database. (I don’t have access to the CDU Database to do this. Probably a good thing I don’t have access
In the terminal you will see the amount of entries in the hash table has increased by 1. At the bottom of the 
Client window the is a button that will open the governments Covid information page. Once a new user has been added a text
file will be created in this folder. The text file contains the information added to the database including the assigned code
(if you wish to search it). ***Note: The client window can only be used once while the program is running. There is an issue 
with the turtle module that won’t allow you to destroy the turtle and reinitialise it. The turtle window can be reset but the turtle can’t.

User: Once selected the User must sign in(username= conner password= hit137) with their login details. If the information does
not match the sign in window is closed and panel will appear. Once the user has signed in they will see the Search window. The
users name along with their ID number is on the right hand side of the screen. The small text box is used to enter codes of 
clients for contact tracing. All search results will appear in the window below. You can search any ID code in the database
(examples given in terminal) and the results will appear in the window. If you enter a random 10-digit code the check digit 
will reject the search. If you enter a code that is not 10 digits long the search algorithm will reject it. If the code is
accepted and decrypted the database will use binary search algorithm to retrieve the data. In large databases binary search
is faster than linear. Once the user is done, they click on the quit button and the window closes and panel appears.

App: Once app is activated the program will look for codes in the area using Bluetooth (a simulated result is in place) and
returns the found code and the date and time of when the code was found. This information is also in your terminal. If you 
search the code given by the app in the user window the code will most likely fail to return a result (15 in 16 chance to 
fail) even though the code is accepted, decrypted and the student entry found "me 233186". This is why the code is generated 
with a random digit so if an outside party knows the database encryptions, knows the persons student number and full name
they can’t create a code to enter the database and extract that entry. The user's code that they searched is compared with 
the code assigned to the client and if they don’t match the database will not return the entry.

Quit: Quit will exit the terminal and terminate the program without error

End of Program summary
